Session Tracking in Servlets

Session simply means a particular interval of time.

Session Tracking is a way to maintain state (data) of an user. 
It is also known as session management in servlet.

Http protocol is a stateless so we need to maintain state using session 
tracking techniques. 

Each time user requests to the server, server treats the request as the new request. 
So we need to maintain the state of an user to recognize to particular user.

Why use Session Tracking?
To recognize the user It is used to recognize the particular user.

Session Tracking Techniques
There are four techniques used in Session tracking:

Cookies
Hidden Form Field
URL Rewriting
HttpSession
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cookies in Servlet
A cookie is a small piece of information that is persisted between the 
multiple client requests.

A cookie has a name, a single value, and optional attributes such as a comment, 
path and domain qualifiers, a maximum age, and a version number

How Cookie works
By default, each request is considered as a new request. 
In cookies technique, we add cookie with response from the servlet. 
So cookie is stored in the cache of the browser. After that if request 
is sent by the user, cookie is added with request by default. 
Thus, we recognize the user as the old user.

Types of Cookie
There are 2 types of cookies in servlets.

Non-persistent cookie -It is valid for single session only. 
					    It is removed each time when user closes the browser.
Persistent cookie     -It is valid for multiple session . 
						It is not removed each time when user closes the browser. 
						It is removed only if user logout or signout.


Advantage of Cookies
Simplest technique of maintaining the state.
Cookies are maintained at client side.

Disadvantage of Cookies
It will not work if cookie is disabled from the browser.
Only textual information can be set in Cookie object.


How to create Cookie?
Let's see the simple code to create cookie.

Cookie ck=new Cookie("user","Rakesh");//creating cookie object  
response.addCookie(ck);//adding cookie in the response  

---------------------------------------------------------------------
URL Rewriting
In URL rewriting, we append a token or identifier to the URL of 
the next Servlet or the next resource. 
We can send parameter name/value pairs using the following format:

url?name1=value1&name2=value2&??

A name and a value is separated using an equal = sign, 
a parameter name/value pair is separated from another parameter 
using the ampersand(&).
When the user clicks the hyperlink, the parameter name/value pairs 
will be passed to the server. 
From a Servlet, we can use getParameter() method to obtain a parameter value.

